Today's Watchtower comments focus on the subject of envy and mention that Jehovah's
servants have been targets of envy throughout history.
We will consider these questions.
What is envy?
How did Jehovah help Isaac, the son of Abraham, to stay safe from envious people?
And how can we deal with envy today?
So, what is envy?
Is it the same as greed or covetousness?
No, it is not.
A greedy person is someone who has an excessive desire to have more.
A covetous person is someone who also has an excessive desire to have more.
But what he wants already belongs to someone else.
And what is an envious person?
An envious person doesn't just want to have more.
He wants others to have less.
Further, as used in the Bible, an envious person may be having such deep-seated resentment toward others
that he will even try to destroy what others have.
Does envy is not an expression of greed.
Envy is an expression of hatred.
No wonder that the Apostle Paul stated, those who are full of envy, are deserving of death.
Now, with that description of envy in mind, let us consider our next question.
How did Jehovah protect Isaac from envious people?
We find the answer in Genesis chapter 26.
Now, before we read a couple of verses together, here is some background information.
Isaac and Rebecca are on the way to Egypt to escape from a famine in the land of Canaan.
When they reach Gaerah in the south of Canaan, Jehovah speaks to Isaac.
As we read that Genesis 26 first stood, Jehovah states,
Do not go down to Egypt, dwell in the land that I designate to you.
In verse 3, we read that Jehovah also assures Isaac of his protection.
First three states, reside as a foreigner in this land, and I will continue to with you and bless you.
How does Isaac react? We read in verse 6,
Isaac continued to dwell in Gaerah. He obeyed Jehovah's command.
Now, interestingly, 75 years earlier, Abraham and Sarah also had lived for a while in Gaerah.
During that time, Abraham's servants had the wells that provided Abraham's household with the water they needed.
Abraham even carried out a transaction with the king of the land that made him the owner of a well.
So, later, when Isaac and Rebecca were in Gaerah, they used the wells that Abraham had acquired.
Now, did Isaac receive the blessing that Jehovah had promised?
Now, we find a clear answer at verse 12,
and Isaac began to sow seed in that land, and in that year, he reaped 100 times what he sowed.
Now, imagine this was tired during a time of famine.
So, what was the cause of that amazing harvest?
That the last part of verse 12 gives the reason for Jehovah was blessing him.
And as we know, when Jehovah blesses his servants, he does often abundantly,
and that was certainly the case with Isaac. Note verse 13,
the man became wealthy.
Now, did the blessing stop after this first year harvest?
No, the first adds. He continued to prosper until he became very wealthy.
Then, likely some years went by, and as we read at verse 14,
Isaac acquired flocks of sheep and herds of cattle and a large body of servants.
Now, what was the reaction of the people around Isaac?
The last part of verse 14 adds, the Philistines began to envy him.
Now, as we considered, one characteristic of envious people is that they have such resentment toward others
that they want to deprive of what they have.
Now, did the people who confronted Isaac fill that description?
Look at verse 15, so the Philistines took soil and stopped up all the wells
that his father's servants had dug in the days of Abraham.
So, what they did was not an act of stealing, but an act of willful destruction.
They wanted to cause harm to Isaac and his family by depriving him of the wells.
But Jehovah protected Isaac.
How? As we see at verse 24, Jehovah assured Isaac of his protection
with the strengthening words, do not be afraid.
I am with you.
Now, this is the first recorded instance in the Bible
that Jehovah spoke the words I am with you to one of his servants.
We can imagine how simple but powerful statements strengthened Isaac's faith.
And Jehovah kept his promise to Isaac.
In fact, the evidence of Jehovah's protection and blessing was so convincing that even Isaac's enemies later had to admit,
as we read at verse 28, we have clearly seen that Jehovah has been with you.
Today, what can we learn from this account?
We should clearly keep in mind Jehovah's reassuring words I am with you.
Why? Because soon, we also will become the target of envy.
As God's words revealed after the start of the great revelation,
the kings of the earth will form a coalition of nations that will attack us.
Ezekiel describes that coalition as God of Maygok.
But what motivates God of Maygok to attack us?
The watchtower stated, God of Maygok will attack God's people,
being envious of their peace and prosperity.
Now, what is the prosperity or wealth that turns us into a target of envy and hatred?
In our case, we will not be attacked because of our great material wealth.
Instead, God of Maygok will attack us because of our great spiritual wealth.
We are spiritually wealthy because we live in a spiritual paradise.
Our most precious possession is our worship to Jehovah, which we give to Jehovah alone.
Now, just that mean that the nations will attack us because they see the value of pure worship?
Think back to the time of Isaac.
Did the attackers see the value of the wells and use them for themselves?
No, they plundered and ruined the wells because they hated Isaac.
Now, a similar motive will drive the coalition of nations.
The pure worship book stays on page 188.
The nations will seek to plunder pure worship, not because they value it, but because they hate it.
The nations who envy us are determined to destroy what we have.
So, what will give us the inner strength when we become the target of envy?
We need to remain focused on the assurance that Jehovah repeated to faithful servants in Bible times.
To Isaac, Jehovah said, I am with you.
To Jacob, Jehovah said, I am with you.
To faithful ones in Israel, Jehovah said, I am with you.
To Jeremiah, Jehovah said, I am with you.
The more we meditate on why Jehovah was with these faithful ones of old,
the stronger our trust will become that Jehovah will protect us against that attack of the envious coalition of nations.